.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: c++

.. role:: fortran(code)
   :language: fortran


Compiling AMReX with CVODE
==========================

The following steps describe how to compile an AMReX application with
CVODE support.  On Cray systems (e.g., Cori or Edison at NERSC), Cray provides
a system module called ``cray-tpsl`` (“Cray Third-Party Scientific Libraries”)
which contains the latest version of the SUNDIALS solver suite (including
CVODE).  Simply type ``module load cray-tpsl`` and set ``USE_CVODE=TRUE`` in
the ``GNUmakefile``, and AMReX will automatically link the SUNDIALS libraries.

On systems which are not Cray:

#. Obtain the CVODE source code, which is hosted here:
   https://computation.llnl.gov/projects/sundials/sundials-software.
   One can download either the complete SUNDIALS package, or just the CVODE components.

#. Unpack the CVODE / SUNDIALS tarball, and create a new “build” directory (it
   can be anywhere).

#. Navigate to the new, empty build directory, and type

   ::

         cmake \
           -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX:PATH=/path/to/install/dir \
           /path/to/cvode/or/sundials/top/level/source/dir


   The ``CMAKE_INSTALL_DIR`` option tells CMake where to install the libraries.
   Note that CMake will attempt to deduce the compilers automatically, but
   respects certain environment variables if they are defined, such as ``CC``
   (for the C compiler), ``CXX`` (for the C++ compiler), and ``FC`` (for the
   Fortran compiler).  So one may modify the above CMake invocation to be
   something like the following:

   ::

         CC=/path/to/gcc \
         CXX=/path/to/g++ \
         FC=/path/to/gfortran \
           cmake \
           -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX:PATH=/path/to/install/dir \
           /path/to/cvode/or/sundials/top/level/source/dir


   One can supply additional flags to CMake or to the compiler to customize the
   compilation process.  Flags of interest may include ``CMAKE_C_FLAGS``, which
   add the specified flags to the compile statement, e.g.,
   ``-DCMAKE_C_FLAGS="-h list=a"`` will append the ``-h list=a`` flag to the
   ``cc`` statement when compiling the source code.  Here one may wish to add
   something like ``"-O2 -g"`` to provide an optimized library that still
   contains debugging symbols; if one neglects debugging symbols in the CVODE
   library, and if a code that uses CVODE encounters a segmentation fault in
   the solve, then the backtrace has no information about where in the solver
   the error occurred.  Also, if one wishes to compile only the solver library
   itself and not the examples that come with the source (compiling the
   examples is enabled by default), one can add ``"-DEXAMPLES_ENABLE=OFF"``.
   Users should be aware that the CVODE examples are linked dynamically, so
   when compiling the solver library on Cray system using the Cray compiler
   wrappers ``cc``, ``CC``, and ``ftn``, one should explicitly disable
   compiling the examples via the ``"-DEXAMPLES_ENABLE=OFF"`` flag.

#. In the ``GNUmakefile`` for the  application which uses the Fortran 2003
   interface to , add ``USE_CVODE = TRUE``, which will compile the Fortran 2003
   interfaces and link the  libraries.  Note that one must define the
   ``CVODE_LIB_DIR`` environment variable to point to the location where the
   libraries are installed.

The CVODE Tutorials
===================

AMReX provides two CVODE tutorials in the ``amrex/Tutorials/CVODE`` directory, called
``EX1`` and ``EX2``.  ``EX1`` consists of a single ODE that is integrated with
CVODE within each cell of a 3-D grid.  It demonstrates how to initialize the
CVODE solver, how to call the ODE right-hand-side (RHS), and, more importantly,
how to *re-*\ initialize the solver between cells, which avoids allocating and
freeing solver memory between each cell (see the call to ``FCVReInit()`` in the
``integrate_ode.f90`` file in the ``EX1`` directory.)

The ``EX2`` example demonstrates the slightly more complicated case of
integrating a system of coupled ODEs within each cell.  Similarly to ``EX1``,
it provides an RHS and some solver initialization.  However, it also
demonstrates the performance effect of providing an analytic Jacobian matrix
for the system of ODEs, rather than requiring the  solver to compute the
Jacobian matrix numerically using a finite-difference approach.  The tutorial
integrates the same system of ODEs on the same 3-D grid, but in one sweep it
instructs CVODE to use the analytic function that computes the Jacobian matrix,
and in the other case, it does not, which requires CVODE to compute it
manually.  One observes a significant performance gain by providing the
analytic Jacobian function.
